README.md, before:

# cargo-public-api

List and diff the public API of Rust library crates between releases and commits. Detect breaking API changes and semver violations. Relies on and automatically builds [rustdoc JSON](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/76578), for which a recent version of the Rust nightly toolchain must be installed.

# Installation

```bash
# Install cargo-public-api with a recent regular stable Rust toolchain
cargo install cargo-public-api

# Ensure nightly-2022-09-28 or later is installed so cargo-public-api can build rustdoc JSON for you
rustup install nightly
```

# Usage

## List the Public API

This example lists the public API of the ubiquitous `regex` crate. First we clone the repo:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/rust-lang/regex
cd regex
```

Now we can list the public API of `regex` by running

```bash
cargo public-api
```

which will print the public API of `regex` with one line per public item in the API:

<img src="docs/img/list.jpg" alt="colored output of listing a public api">

## Diff the Public API

To diff the API between say **0.2.2** and **0.2.3** of `regex`, use `--diff-git-checkouts 0.2.2 0.2.3` while standing in the git repo. Like this:

```bash
cargo public-api --diff-git-checkouts 0.2.2 0.2.3
```

and the API diff will be printed:

<img src="docs/img/diff.jpg" alt="colored output of diffing a public api">

### … of Your Current Branch

When you make changes to your library you often want to make sure that you do not accidentally change the public API of your library, or that the API change you are making looks like you expect. For this use case, first git commit your work in progress, and then run

```bash
cargo public-api --diff-git-checkouts origin/main your-current-branch
```

which will print the diff of your public API changes compared to `origin/main`.

### … as a CI Check

This tool can be put to good use in CI pipelines to e.g. help you make sure your public API is not unexpectedly changed. Please see [CI-EXAMPLES.md](./docs/CI-EXAMPLES.md) for CI job configuration examples and use cases.

### … Against Published Version

Before you `cargo publish` a new version of your crate, you can diff the public API of your local code against the public API of the version you last published. Use the `--diff-published` arg for that. Like this:

```bash
cargo public-api --diff-published regex@0.2.2
```

## Expected Output

Output aims to be character-by-character identical to the textual parts of the regular `cargo doc` HTML output. For example, [this item](https://docs.rs/bat/0.20.0/bat/struct.PrettyPrinter.html#method.input_files) has the following textual representation in the rendered HTML:

```
pub fn input_files<I, P>(&mut self, paths: I) -> &mut Self
where
    I: IntoIterator<Item = P>,
    P: AsRef<Path>,
```

and `cargo public-api` represents this item in the following manner:

```
pub fn bat::PrettyPrinter::input_files<I, P>(&mut self, paths: I) -> &mut Self where I: IntoIterator<Item = P>, P: AsRef<Path>
```

If we normalize by removing newline characters and adding some whitespace padding to get the alignment right for side-by-side comparison, we can see that they are exactly the same, except an irrelevant trailing comma:

```
pub fn                     input_files<I, P>(&mut self, paths: I) -> &mut Self where I: IntoIterator<Item = P>, P: AsRef<Path>,
pub fn bat::PrettyPrinter::input_files<I, P>(&mut self, paths: I) -> &mut Self where I: IntoIterator<Item = P>, P: AsRef<Path>
```

## Blanket Implementations

By default, blanket implementations such as `impl<T> Any for T`, `impl<T> Borrow<T> for T`, and `impl<T, U> Into<U> for T where U: From<T>` are omitted from the list of public items of a crate. For the vast majority of use cases, blanket implementations are not of interest, and just creates noise.

Use `--with-blanket-implementations` if you want to include items of blanket implementations in the output:
```bash
cargo public-api --with-blanket-implementations
```

# Compatibility Matrix

| cargo-public-api | Understands the rustdoc JSON output of  |
| ---------------- | --------------------------------------- |
| 0.20.x — 0.22.x  | nightly-2022-09-28 —                    |
| 0.19.x           | nightly-2022-09-08 — nightly-2022-09-27 |
| 0.18.x           | nightly-2022-09-07                      |
| 0.17.x           | nightly-2022-09-06                      |
| 0.15.x — 0.16.x  | nightly-2022-08-15 — nightly-2022-09-05 |
| 0.13.x — 0.14.x  | nightly-2022-08-10 — nightly-2022-08-14 |
| 0.12.x           | nightly-2022-05-19 — nightly-2022-08-09 |
| 0.10.x — 0.11.x  | nightly-2022-03-14 — nightly-2022-05-18 |
| 0.5.x  — 0.9.x   | nightly-2022-02-23 — nightly-2022-03-13 |
| 0.2.x  — 0.3.x   | nightly-2022-01-19 — nightly-2022-02-22 |
| 0.0.5  — 0.1.x   | nightly-2021-10-11 — nightly-2022-01-18 |

# Contributing

See [CONTRIBUTING.md](./docs/CONTRIBUTING.md).

## Maintainers

- [Enselic](https://github.com/Enselic)
- [douweschulte](https://github.com/douweschulte)
- [Emilgardis](https://github.com/Emilgardis)

Commit message:

Include all `impl`s by default, add `--simplified` opt-out
I consider it important that the tool is trustworthy by default.
Meaning, it should list the full public API by default. So that e.g.
setting up CI jobs "just works".

At the same, this makes output by default very noisy.

Introduce an arg `--simplified` so that Blanket Impls and Auto Traits
Impls can be omitted.

To summarize:

Before this PR:
---
* Auto Trait Impls always included
* Blanket Impls omitted by default, opt-in with `--with-blanket-implementations`

After this pR:
---
* Blanket Impls and Auto Trait Impls included by default
* Opt-out via `--simplified`

README.md, after:

# cargo-public-api

List and diff the public API of Rust library crates between releases and commits. Detect breaking API changes and semver violations. Relies on and automatically builds [rustdoc JSON](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/76578), for which a recent version of the Rust nightly toolchain must be installed.

# Installation

```bash
# Install cargo-public-api with a recent regular stable Rust toolchain
cargo install cargo-public-api

# Ensure nightly-2022-09-28 or later is installed so cargo-public-api can build rustdoc JSON for you
rustup install nightly
```

# Usage

## List the Public API

This example lists the public API of the ubiquitous `regex` crate. First we clone the repo:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/rust-lang/regex
cd regex
```

Now we can list the public API of `regex` by running

```bash
cargo public-api
```

which will print the public API of `regex` with one line per public item in the API:

<img src="docs/img/list.jpg" alt="colored output of listing a public api">

## Diff the Public API

To diff the API between say **0.2.2** and **0.2.3** of `regex`, use `--diff-git-checkouts 0.2.2 0.2.3` while standing in the git repo. Like this:

```bash
cargo public-api --diff-git-checkouts 0.2.2 0.2.3
```

and the API diff will be printed:

<img src="docs/img/diff.jpg" alt="colored output of diffing a public api">

### … of Your Current Branch

When you make changes to your library you often want to make sure that you do not accidentally change the public API of your library, or that the API change you are making looks like you expect. For this use case, first git commit your work in progress, and then run

```bash
cargo public-api --diff-git-checkouts origin/main your-current-branch
```

which will print the diff of your public API changes compared to `origin/main`.

### … as a CI Check

This tool can be put to good use in CI pipelines to e.g. help you make sure your public API is not unexpectedly changed. Please see [CI-EXAMPLES.md](./docs/CI-EXAMPLES.md) for CI job configuration examples and use cases.

### … Against Published Version

Before you `cargo publish` a new version of your crate, you can diff the public API of your local code against the public API of the version you last published. Use the `--diff-published` arg for that. Like this:

```bash
cargo public-api --diff-published regex@0.2.2
```

## Expected Output

Output aims to be character-by-character identical to the textual parts of the regular `cargo doc` HTML output. For example, [this item](https://docs.rs/bat/0.20.0/bat/struct.PrettyPrinter.html#method.input_files) has the following textual representation in the rendered HTML:

```
pub fn input_files<I, P>(&mut self, paths: I) -> &mut Self
where
    I: IntoIterator<Item = P>,
    P: AsRef<Path>,
```

and `cargo public-api` represents this item in the following manner:

```
pub fn bat::PrettyPrinter::input_files<I, P>(&mut self, paths: I) -> &mut Self where I: IntoIterator<Item = P>, P: AsRef<Path>
```

If we normalize by removing newline characters and adding some whitespace padding to get the alignment right for side-by-side comparison, we can see that they are exactly the same, except an irrelevant trailing comma:

```
pub fn                     input_files<I, P>(&mut self, paths: I) -> &mut Self where I: IntoIterator<Item = P>, P: AsRef<Path>,
pub fn bat::PrettyPrinter::input_files<I, P>(&mut self, paths: I) -> &mut Self where I: IntoIterator<Item = P>, P: AsRef<Path>
```

## Less Noisy Output

By default, items belonging to Blanket Implementations and Auto Trait Implementations such as `impl<T> Borrow<T> for T`, `impl<T, U> Into<U> for T where U: From<T>`, `impl Send for Foo` and `impl Sync for Foo` are included in the list of public items of a crate.

For casual uses of this tool, it can be helpful to omit such items from the output, as that makes the output much less noisy and repetitive. This is done with `--simplified`:
```bash
cargo public-api --simplified
```

# Compatibility Matrix

| cargo-public-api | Understands the rustdoc JSON output of  |
| ---------------- | --------------------------------------- |
| 0.20.x — 0.22.x  | nightly-2022-09-28 —                    |
| 0.19.x           | nightly-2022-09-08 — nightly-2022-09-27 |
| 0.18.x           | nightly-2022-09-07                      |
| 0.17.x           | nightly-2022-09-06                      |
| 0.15.x — 0.16.x  | nightly-2022-08-15 — nightly-2022-09-05 |
| 0.13.x — 0.14.x  | nightly-2022-08-10 — nightly-2022-08-14 |
| 0.12.x           | nightly-2022-05-19 — nightly-2022-08-09 |
| 0.10.x — 0.11.x  | nightly-2022-03-14 — nightly-2022-05-18 |
| 0.5.x  — 0.9.x   | nightly-2022-02-23 — nightly-2022-03-13 |
| 0.2.x  — 0.3.x   | nightly-2022-01-19 — nightly-2022-02-22 |
| 0.0.5  — 0.1.x   | nightly-2021-10-11 — nightly-2022-01-18 |

# Contributing

See [CONTRIBUTING.md](./docs/CONTRIBUTING.md).

## Maintainers

- [Enselic](https://github.com/Enselic)
- [douweschulte](https://github.com/douweschulte)
- [Emilgardis](https://github.com/Emilgardis)
