doc/development.md, before:

# Minimum required Rust version

This project is guaranteed to build the the latest stable Rust toolchain. More specifically, the toolchain that is installed by default on GitHub's `ubuntu-latest` runner. You can see [here](https://github.com/actions/virtual-environments/blob/main/images/linux/Ubuntu2004-Readme.md#rust-tools) what version that currently is.

Note that the toolchain required to build this library is distinct from the toolchain required to generate the rustdoc JSON that this library processes. Rustdoc JSON can currently only be generated with the nightly toolchain.

# Tips to work on this tool

## Run local copy of `cargo-public-api` on an arbitrary crate

There are two ways. You can either do:
```
% cd ~/src/arbitrary-crate
% cargo run --manifest-path ~/src/cargo-public-api/cargo-public-api/Cargo.toml
```
or you can do
```
% cd ~/src/cargo-public-api
% cargo run --bin cargo-public-api -- --manifest-path ~/src/arbitrary-crate/Cargo.toml
```
In the first case `--manifest-path` is interpreted by `cargo` itself, and in the second case `--manifest-path` is interpreted by `cargo-public-api`.

NOTE: The second way does not work with `--diff-git-checkouts` yet.

You can also combine both ways:
```
% cd /does/not/matter
% cargo run --manifest-path ~/src/cargo-public-api/cargo-public-api/Cargo.toml -- --manifest-path ~/src/arbitrary-crate/Cargo.toml
```

## Code coverage

Exploring code coverage is a good way to ensure we have broad enough tests. This is the command I use personally to get started:

```bash
cd public-api
cargo llvm-cov --html && open ../target/llvm-cov/html/index.html
```

Which obviously requires you to have done `cargo install cargo-llvm-cov` first.

# Maintainer guidelines

Here are some guidelines if you are a maintainer:

**A.** Prefer creating PRs when making a change to ensure CI passes before merge. Prefer waiting on code review for non-trivial changes.

**B.** If a change is low-risk, uncontroversial, and should not end up in the automatically generated changelog for releases, it is fine to push directly to main without going through a PR, CR, and CI pipeline. But please run `scripts/run-ci-locally.sh` locally before pushing. And if CI unexpectedly fails after push, please fix it as soon as possible.

**C.** Never manually `cargo publish`. See 'How to release' below.

**D.** Always keep the main branch in a releasable state. This ensures that we can spontaneously and frequently make releases.

**E.** Avoid having large and long-lived branches. That increases the risk of future merge conflicts and sadness. Prefer many, small, incremental, short-lived PRs that is regularly merged to main.

## How to release

1. Bump to the same `version` in **public-api/Cargo.toml** and **cargo-public-api/Cargo.toml** (including the dependency on `public-api`), and push to `main`
2. If `MINIMUM_RUSTDOC_JSON_VERSION` must be bumped, bump it. If you bump it, also bump it in [installation instruction](https://github.com/Enselic/cargo-public-api#installation) and the [compatibility matrix](https://github.com/Enselic/cargo-public-api#compatibility-matrix).
3. Label PRs that should not be mentioned in the release notes with `[exclude-from-release-notes]`
4. Go to https://github.com/Enselic/cargo-public-api/actions/workflows/Release.yml
5. Click the **Run workflow ▼** button to the right
6. Make sure the `main` branch is selected
7. Click **Run workflow**
8. Wait for the workflow to complete
9. Double-check that the release ended up at https://crates.io/crates/public-api/versions and https://crates.io/crates/cargo-public-api/versions
10. Double-check that the auto-generated release notes for the release at https://github.com/Enselic/cargo-public-api/releases is not horribly inaccurate. If so, please edit.
11. Done!

Commit message:

doc/development.md: Give tip about `--rustdoc-json-toolchain`

doc/development.md, after:

# Minimum required Rust version

This project is guaranteed to build the the latest stable Rust toolchain. More specifically, the toolchain that is installed by default on GitHub's `ubuntu-latest` runner. You can see [here](https://github.com/actions/virtual-environments/blob/main/images/linux/Ubuntu2004-Readme.md#rust-tools) what version that currently is.

Note that the toolchain required to build this library is distinct from the toolchain required to generate the rustdoc JSON that this library processes. Rustdoc JSON can currently only be generated with the nightly toolchain.

# Tips to work on this tool

## Run local copy of `cargo-public-api` on an arbitrary crate

There are two ways. You can either do:
```
% cd ~/src/arbitrary-crate
% cargo run --manifest-path ~/src/cargo-public-api/cargo-public-api/Cargo.toml
```
or you can do
```
% cd ~/src/cargo-public-api
% cargo run --bin cargo-public-api -- --manifest-path ~/src/arbitrary-crate/Cargo.toml
```
In the first case `--manifest-path` is interpreted by `cargo` itself, and in the second case `--manifest-path` is interpreted by `cargo-public-api`.

NOTE: The second way does not work with `--diff-git-checkouts` yet.

You can also combine both ways:
```
% cd /does/not/matter
% cargo run --manifest-path ~/src/cargo-public-api/cargo-public-api/Cargo.toml -- --manifest-path ~/src/arbitrary-crate/Cargo.toml
```

## Use custom rustdoc JSON toolchain

If you have built rustdoc yourself to try some rustdoc JSON fix, you can run `cargo public-api` with your custom toolchain like this:

```
cargo public-api --rustdoc-json-toolchain +custom
```

## Code coverage

Exploring code coverage is a good way to ensure we have broad enough tests. This is the command I use personally to get started:

```bash
cd public-api
cargo llvm-cov --html && open ../target/llvm-cov/html/index.html
```

Which obviously requires you to have done `cargo install cargo-llvm-cov` first.

# Maintainer guidelines

Here are some guidelines if you are a maintainer:

**A.** Prefer creating PRs when making a change to ensure CI passes before merge. Prefer waiting on code review for non-trivial changes.

**B.** If a change is low-risk, uncontroversial, and should not end up in the automatically generated changelog for releases, it is fine to push directly to main without going through a PR, CR, and CI pipeline. But please run `scripts/run-ci-locally.sh` locally before pushing. And if CI unexpectedly fails after push, please fix it as soon as possible.

**C.** Never manually `cargo publish`. See 'How to release' below.

**D.** Always keep the main branch in a releasable state. This ensures that we can spontaneously and frequently make releases.

**E.** Avoid having large and long-lived branches. That increases the risk of future merge conflicts and sadness. Prefer many, small, incremental, short-lived PRs that is regularly merged to main.

## How to release

1. Bump to the same `version` in **public-api/Cargo.toml** and **cargo-public-api/Cargo.toml** (including the dependency on `public-api`), and push to `main`
2. If `MINIMUM_RUSTDOC_JSON_VERSION` must be bumped, bump it. If you bump it, also bump it in [installation instruction](https://github.com/Enselic/cargo-public-api#installation) and the [compatibility matrix](https://github.com/Enselic/cargo-public-api#compatibility-matrix).
3. Label PRs that should not be mentioned in the release notes with `[exclude-from-release-notes]`
4. Go to https://github.com/Enselic/cargo-public-api/actions/workflows/Release.yml
5. Click the **Run workflow ▼** button to the right
6. Make sure the `main` branch is selected
7. Click **Run workflow**
8. Wait for the workflow to complete
9. Double-check that the release ended up at https://crates.io/crates/public-api/versions and https://crates.io/crates/cargo-public-api/versions
10. Double-check that the auto-generated release notes for the release at https://github.com/Enselic/cargo-public-api/releases is not horribly inaccurate. If so, please edit.
11. Done!
